# Tech Education

## Junior College

My academic journey in electronic engineering commenced during my enrollment at a technology junior college.

During my studies, I continued a keen interest in electronic components and the utilization of electronic instruments, particularly oscilloscopes.

I thoroughly enjoyed electronic circuits, components, vacuum tubes and transistors classes. Laboratories involved constructing circuits and measuring various electronic parameters.

## Engineering College

My subsequent academic pursuit in electronic engineering entailed enrolling in a four-year Electronics Engineering Bachelor Degree program.

In parallel with Electronic Engineering classes, mathematics and physics classes were aligned with Electronic Engineering theory classes

### Circuit Analysis Software

An intriguing aspect of one class was to describe a circuit to an electronic circuit analysis software program that analyzed circuits and printed out computed parameters. The results of the circuit I described were a significant revelation for me.

### Circuit Parasitics

The success of physical circuit design is influenced by the physical reality of component tolerances, and parasitics like electromagnetic interference generated by component or circuits unintentionally affecting the operation of other components or circuits. This can happen through radiation radio waves through air or conduction through wires or circut traces. These effects are usually difficult to measure and correct.

### Software

I was drawn to software Engineering because of the difficlties  correcting hardware parasitics. Support software, hardware or network errors can usually be traced and corrected.

### Senior Project

The final year of Electronic Engineering classes included designing, developing, and documenting a Senior Project before graduation.

I developed a software program after learning some aspects of the Fortran programming language. The progrm utilized the Fourier transform, a mathematical technique that converts a repetitive waveform from the time domain to the frequency domain. This process reveals the frequencies present in a repetitive waveform and their respective amplitudes. The software underwent laboratory testing using a waveform generator and a spectrum analyzer instrument. The spectrum analyzer visualizes and measures electronic signals based on their frequency content. A perfect software square wave analyzed by the software output was in agreement with the spectrum analyzer’s results. A practical application of the software is to calibrate an oscilloscope time axis by adjusting a waveform generator to produce a perfect square wave viewed on a spectrum analyzer and adjusting the oscilloscope time axis to observe the perfect square wave.
